Rusty's Dana's here we're gonna have a
look at this wheel bearing it's a dead
easy job so let's get stuck into it okay
the first thing we're going to do is
take this cap off and you can see
there's a bit of a lip there so if we
can we'll prise it off using something
like a screwdriver to get it off but if
it doesn't come off easy we get a hammer
and we tap around there and if it comes
very easy this one's open a a rag about
there's a split pin in here we're gonna
take that out and there's a knot under
there I'm gonna wipe the grease off get
that knot off then we'll be able to pull
the whole hub out as we begin to pull
the wheel off you can see that at a
wheel bearing coming out there so I'll
just get that so this is the stub axle
there's the inner bearing and the seal
so just looking at that bearing even
that pitting on each of those rollers
it's enough to to change it but worst of
all even look at that one smashed
smashed gone okay so now what type of
bearing was that what type of bearing do
we need to go to the shop and buy well
one of the ways they determine it is the
axle and if we look at this axle it's a
45 mil square axle some are 39 mill
round there are different sizes right
now here's a tough little job we've got
to get these cones out these ones are
old with scored it's one inside at the
back
and this is the front one to get them
out I'm using this long punch I'm
getting in there and I'm giving it a
good whack with a hammer I'm working
your way around and that'll push those
out you don't be afraid to get in and
give them a good hit now I took the old
cups out and I've put the new cup in I
used a block of wood first to knock it
down first and then it's in very tight
now if I tilt over you can still see of
that a couple of millimeters or I don't
know quarter of an inch or take them an
inch to go there so I'm just going to
keep tapping it down until it's seated
all the way down in have these new
bearings they've got to be packed with
grease and really shoved in so it's
right in through those holes getting
right through both sides this is a dirty
job have plenty of rags on it so now we
have the inner bearing on and the seal
on there and we'll put a bit extra
grease on and put the hub with the wheel
on now so finally they've got it all
back together the nuts on the pins
through the hole dabbed a bit of more
grease on there the last thing to do is
put the cap back on you don't fill the
cap with grease but you can put a little
bit of grease in it of course if your
fall the cap with grease there's a big
nut kind of go in there so you won't get
it on and then you just slip that on and
you tap it in and job done to easy